README.md, before:

**A diverse CC0 reference image set of the human form**
=======================================================

### Annotated as a topological reference for the [biomechanical-basemesh][URL-basemesh] project

&nbsp;



***Purpose, scope, and usage***
===============================

The purpose of this reference image set is to inform the development of a topologically-universal human 3D model in the [biomechanical-basemesh][URL-basemesh] project, emphasizing accurate deformations and edge flow.
Due to its size, this repository is hosted separately from the downstream project and included as a submodule within it.

If you wish to view and manipulate the topological annotations with their reference images at full resolution, you'll need to open the SVG files for that topological region (for example, `topology/face/annotations/001.svg`) in a compatible viewer, such as [Inkscape][URL-Inkscape].
Please note that these SVG files reference assets using relative paths, so everything within the `topology/` directory must be kept together to maintain functionality.

If you are simply looking for the unmarked reference images, you can find those in each topological region's `images/` directory; for example, `topology/face/images/`

Baked-down portable JPGs of the topologically annotated reference images will be available once annotation of the first image set is complete.

&nbsp;



***A note about reference image diversity***
============================================

A concerted effort was made to represent distributed human diversity amongst these reference images in order to best inform a universal human topology.
Unfortunately, the images freely available in the public domain (or equivalent) disproportionaly represent certain human populations over others.
There was also understandably a bias towards selecting images which would be informative to human topology, such as visibility of pores/creases/wrinkles, strong or unique muscle activation, an unobstructed view of the skin, etc.
As a result, despite all efforts to inform a universally inclusive basemesh, this image set may represent a skewed human demographic.

If you identify a lapse in universal topology in the [downstream project][URL-basemesh], please [open a public issue there][URL-New-Issue] or email me privately via <recursivenomad@protonmail.com> to discuss incorporating the underrepresented features into this project (and by extension, into the biomechanical-basemesh topology).

&nbsp;



***Further reading***
=====================

- The effort to represent distributed diversity of human ethnicities throughout the reference images was informed in part by the major ethno-linguistic assemblages/clades described in this open-access paper:
  
    > Duda, P. & Zrzavý, J. Human population history revealed by a supertree approach. Scientific Reports, 6, 29890 (2016). doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/srep29890

- The range of expressions distributed throughout the facial reference images was informed in part by the facial expressions discussed in this open-access paper:

    > Du, S. & Martinez, A. Compound facial expressions of emotion: from basic research to clinical applications. Dialogues in Clinical Neuroscience, 17(4), 443-455 (2015). doi: https://doi.org/10.31887/DCNS.2015.17.4/sdu

&nbsp;



***License / Access***
======================

This work is made freely available under the [*CC0 1.0 Universal*][URL-CC0] public domain dedication, the text of which should be found in [`COPYING.txt`](./COPYING.txt) in the root directory of this project alongside this `README`.

*No additional/conflicting permissions were present in the source repository at the time of release.*

----------------------

*Repository: <https://github.com/recursivenomad/human-topology-reference/>*  
*Contact: <recursivenomad@protonmail.com>*

----------------------



[URL-CC0]: <https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/>

[URL-basemesh]: <https://gitlab.com/recursivenomad/biomechanical-basemesh/>
[URL-New-Issue]: <https://gitlab.com/recursivenomad/biomechanical-basemesh/-/issues/new>

[URL-Inkscape]: <https://inkscape.org/release/inkscape-1.3.2/>

Commit message:

Add note that GitHub doesn't render SVGs well

README.md, after:

**A diverse CC0 reference image set of the human form**
=======================================================

### Annotated as a topological reference for the [biomechanical-basemesh][URL-basemesh] project

&nbsp;



***Purpose, scope, and usage***
===============================

The purpose of this reference image set is to inform the development of a topologically-universal human 3D model in the [biomechanical-basemesh][URL-basemesh] project, emphasizing accurate deformations and edge flow.
Due to its size, this repository is hosted separately from the downstream project and included as a submodule within it.

If you wish to view and manipulate the topological annotations with their reference images at full resolution, you'll need to open the SVG files for that topological region (for example, `topology/face/annotations/001.svg`) in a compatible viewer, such as [Inkscape][URL-Inkscape].
Please note that these SVG files reference assets using relative paths, so everything within the `topology/` directory must be kept together to maintain functionality.
And although convenient for viewing content online, GitHub's native SVG renderer appears to not render external assets, so viewing these files directly on GitHub is greatly limited and not recommended.

If you are simply looking for the unmarked reference images, you can find those in each topological region's `images/` directory; for example, `topology/face/images/`

Baked-down portable JPGs of the topologically annotated reference images will be available once annotation of the first image set is complete.

&nbsp;



***A note about reference image diversity***
============================================

A concerted effort was made to represent distributed human diversity amongst these reference images in order to best inform a universal human topology.
Unfortunately, the images freely available in the public domain (or equivalent) disproportionaly represent certain human populations over others.
There was also understandably a bias towards selecting images which would be informative to human topology, such as visibility of pores/creases/wrinkles, strong or unique muscle activation, an unobstructed view of the skin, etc.
As a result, despite all efforts to inform a universally inclusive basemesh, this image set may represent a skewed human demographic.

If you identify a lapse in universal topology in the [downstream project][URL-basemesh], please [open a public issue there][URL-New-Issue] or email me privately via <recursivenomad@protonmail.com> to discuss incorporating the underrepresented features into this project (and by extension, into the biomechanical-basemesh topology).

&nbsp;



***Further reading***
=====================

- The effort to represent distributed diversity of human ethnicities throughout the reference images was informed in part by the major ethno-linguistic assemblages/clades described in this open-access paper:
  
    > Duda, P. & Zrzavý, J. Human population history revealed by a supertree approach. Scientific Reports, 6, 29890 (2016). doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/srep29890

- The range of expressions distributed throughout the facial reference images was informed in part by the facial expressions discussed in this open-access paper:

    > Du, S. & Martinez, A. Compound facial expressions of emotion: from basic research to clinical applications. Dialogues in Clinical Neuroscience, 17(4), 443-455 (2015). doi: https://doi.org/10.31887/DCNS.2015.17.4/sdu

&nbsp;



***License / Access***
======================

This work is made freely available under the [*CC0 1.0 Universal*][URL-CC0] public domain dedication, the text of which should be found in [`COPYING.txt`](./COPYING.txt) in the root directory of this project alongside this `README`.

*No additional/conflicting permissions were present in the source repository at the time of release.*

----------------------

*Repository: <https://github.com/recursivenomad/human-topology-reference/>*  
*Contact: <recursivenomad@protonmail.com>*

----------------------



[URL-CC0]: <https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/>

[URL-basemesh]: <https://gitlab.com/recursivenomad/biomechanical-basemesh/>
[URL-New-Issue]: <https://gitlab.com/recursivenomad/biomechanical-basemesh/-/issues/new>

[URL-Inkscape]: <https://inkscape.org/release/inkscape-1.3.2/>
